# [53. Maximum Subarray](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-subarray/solutions/4047524/maximum-subarray-python-easy-explanations/)

## Solution 1: Brute Force Search

### Intuition

Find the sum of every subarray in `nums` and return the largest sum.

### Approach

1. Initialize `global_max` as negative infinity.
1. Iterate through `nums`.
1. In each iteration:
   - Initialize `current_sum` as 0.
   - Find the sums of all subarrays that must include the current element by iterating over `nums` from the current element onwards and incrementing `current_sum` along the way.
   - Update `global_max` if a higher `current_sum` is seen.
1. Finally, return `global_max`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def maxSubArray(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        global_max = float("-inf")
        for i in range(len(nums)):
            current_sum = 0
            for j in range(i, len(nums)):
                current_sum += nums[j]
                global_max = max(global_max, current_sum)
        return global_max
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n^2)$

The total number of subarrays is $O(1 + 2 + 3 + ... + n) = O(\frac{n(n+1)}{2}) = O(n^2)$.

- Space complexity: $O(1)$

Constant space used (only 1 variable required).

---

## Solution 2: Dynamic Programming (Kadane's Algorithm)

### Intuition

Break the problem into multiple overlapping subproblems with optimal substructures and solve them using dynamic programming.

Let `dp[i]` be the largest sum seen so far that must include the element at position `i` starting from the left, then:

$$
\text{dp}[i] = \text{nums}[i] + \max
\begin{cases}
    \text{dp}[i-1], \\
    0
\end{cases}
$$

and initialize `dp[0]` as `nums[0]` as it is the only choice.

The intuition for each case as as follows:

1. `nums[i] + dp[i-1]` (when `dp[i-1]` is positive): we continue to add on the current element to the previous subarray's largest running sum.
1. `nums[i]` (when `dp[i-1]` is negative): we ignore all the elements on the left-side (before `i`) and only consider the current element.
    > **_NOTE:_** in a way, we reset the start of the subarray for subsequent searches to start from position `i`. This can also be viewed as a greedy approach.

We can optimize space as we do not need to keep track of the entire dynamic programming table values. We can just maintain a variable to store the previous step local maximum's value `dp[i-1]`.

### Approach

1. Initialize `local_max` as 0 and `global_max` as negative infinity.
1. Iterate over `nums`.
1. In each iteration:
    - Update `local_max` by taking sum of `nums[i]` with the maximum of `local_max` and 0.
    - Update `global_max` if a higher `local_max` is seen.
1. Finally, return `global_max`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def maxSubArray(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        local_max, global_max = 0, float("-inf")
        for i in range(len(nums)):
            local_max = nums[i] + max(local_max, 0)
            global_max = max(global_max, local_max)
        return global_max
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

A single pass `for` loop is used iterate over `nums`.

- Space complexity: $O(1)$

Constant space used (only 2 variables required).

---

## Solution 3: Recursion (Divide and Conquer)

### Intuition

Break the problem into two halves (divide) and recursively solve them (conquer). Finding the middle index of `nums` and dividing into two halves is easy; the subtle part is in the solving portion.

To solve, we need to see that the maximum subarray must be either be:

1. entirely in the left half $[\text{left}, \text{mid}]$, or;
1. entirely in the right half $[\text{mid}+1, \text{right}]$, or;
1. in a combination of a part of the left half and a part of the right half such that they all overlap to form a contiguous subarray $[L, \text{mid}] + [\text{mid}+1, R]$, where $L \geq \text{left}$ and $R \leq \text{right}$.

The third case is the trickiest as we need to do some preprocessing. We need to pre-compute the local maximum sums for the prefix (left-side) and suffix (right-side) for each position, which is similar to how the `dp` array is defined in the dynamic programming approach.
> **_NOTE:_**  which kind of defeats the purpose as the third case cannot be solved using the divide and conquer approach.

To get the maximum sum for the overlapping case, we add the local maximum sums from both prefix and suffix of the middle element, and minus the middle element value as it is double-counted.

Finally, for each step, we simply take the maximum of these 3 cases.

### Approach

1. Pre-compute `pre_max` and `suf_max`:
   - Initialize them as copies of `nums`.
   - For `pre_max`, iterate through `nums` from left to right starting from index 1 and update `pre_max[i]` with the sum of `nums[i]` and the maximum of `pre_max[i-1]` and 0.
   - For `suf_max`, iterate `nums` from right to left starting from the second last element and update `suf_max[i]` with the sum of `nums[i]` and the maximum of `suf_max[i+1]` and 0.
1. Create a recursive function that takes in the array, with left and right boundaries as the input parameters, and invoke the first call with `left=0` and `right=len(nums)-1`.
1. In the recursive function:
   - Define base case condition where `left == right`, and return either `nums[left]` or `nums[right]`.
   - Find `mid = (left + right) // 2`, and call recursions with `[left, mid]` for the left half and `[mid+1, right]` for the right half.
   - Find the overlapping case sum `pre_max[mid] + suf_max[mid] - nums[mid]`
   - Return the maximum of the above 3 cases.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def maxSubArray(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        self.pre_max, self.suf_max = nums.copy(), nums.copy()
        for i in range(1, len(nums)):  # start second from the left
            self.pre_max[i] = nums[i] + max(self.pre_max[i-1], 0)
        for i in range(len(nums)-2, -1, -1):  # start second from the right
            self.suf_max[i] = nums[i] + max(self.suf_max[i+1], 0)
        return self.maxSubArrayDivideAndConquer(nums, 0, len(nums)-1)

    def maxSubArrayDivideAndConquer(self, nums: List[int], left: int, right: int) -> int:
        if left == right: return nums[left]
        mid = (left + right) // 2
        left_max = self.maxSubArrayDivideAndConquer(nums, left, mid)
        right_max = self.maxSubArrayDivideAndConquer(nums, mid+1, right)
        overlap_max = self.pre_max[mid] + self.suf_max[mid] - nums[mid]
        return max(left_max, right_max, overlap_max)
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

The preprocessing for `pre_max` and `suf_max` each takes $O(n)$ time as they iterate over `nums` once. The recursion has the recurrence relation of $T(n)=2T(\frac{n}{2})$, and using the [Master theorem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Master_theorem_(analysis_of_algorithms)) to solve, it also takes $O(n)$ time.

- Space complexity: $O(n)$

The recursion call stack takes $O(\log n)$ space, however, we still need to include space for `pre_max` and `suf_max` as their sizes are the same as `nums`.
