# [235. Lowest Common Ancestor of a Binary Search Tree]()

## Solution 1: Postorder Traversal with Depth-First Search

### Intuition

Visit the nodes via postorder traversal (left, right, then root) with recursive depth-first search, but we end the search immediately if `p` or `q` is found. If both left and right subtrees are found to contain `p` or `q`, then the current `root` node is the LCA. Else if only the left/right subtree is found to contain `p` or `q`, it means that both `p` and `q` are in that subtree, and thus the respective left/right node is the LCA.

### Approach

1. Define base case when a leaf node (null) is reached , or `root` is either `p` or `q`, and return `root`.
1. Call depth-first search recursively on the `root.left` subtree.
1. Call depth-first search recursively on the `root.right` subtree.
1. Return `root` if both `left` and `right` subtrees contain `p` or `q`.
1. Else it means only either `left` or `right` subtree contain both `p` and `q`, and we return that subtree.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def lowestCommonAncestor(self, root: 'TreeNode', p: 'TreeNode', q: 'TreeNode') -> 'TreeNode':
        if root is None or root == p or root == q: return root
        left = self.lowestCommonAncestor(root.left, p, q)
        right = self.lowestCommonAncestor(root.right, p, q)
        if left is not None and right is not None: return root
        if left is not None: return left
        return right
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

  Every node is accessed once in the worst case.

- Space complexity: $O(n)$

  Recursive call stack requires a size equals to the maximum height of the tree, which is in the worst case the total number of nodes when the tree is degenerate (every parent node only has one child node).

---

## Solution 2: Traverse using Binary Search Tree

### Intuition

Traverse the left or right subtree selectively by leveraging on the characteristic of a Binary Search Tree that `root.val` must be more than `left.val`and less than `right.val`. If `root.val` is in between `p.val` an `q.val`, the it is the LCA. Else if `root.val` is higher than both `p.val` and `q.val`, it means that both `p` and `q` are in the left subtree and we can ignore the entire right subtree and continue the search with left as the current `root` node (vice versa for right subtree).

### Approach

1. Get the lower and higher value of `p` and `q` as `low` and `high`.
1. Enter a while loop which continues until the LCA condition is found (`low <= root.val <= high`), and in each search iteration, update `root` as `left` if `root.val > high` else `right`.
1. Finally, return `root`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def lowestCommonAncestor(self, root: 'TreeNode', p: 'TreeNode', q: 'TreeNode') -> 'TreeNode':
        low, high = min(p.val, q.val), max(p.val, q.val)
        while not (low <= root.val <= high):
            if root.val > high:
                root = root.left
            else:
                root = root.right
        return root
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

  We search up to the maximum height of the tree, which is in the worst case the total number of nodes when the tree is degenerate (every parent node only has one child node).

- Space complexity: $O(1)$

  Constant space used (only 2 variables required).
