# [125. Valid Palindrome](https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-palindrome/solutions/4070564/valid-palindrome-python-easy-explanations/)

## Solution 1: Double-pass Check with Stack

### Intuition

Push all characters in `s` into a stack. Scan through `s` and pop the top of the stack at the same time while skipping non-alphanumeric characters. Convert letters to lowercase, and evaluate immediately if the current character matches with the element on top of the stack.

### Approach

1. Push all characters in `s` into a stack (using a list).
1. Iterate over `s`, and in each iteration:
   - Continue (skip) if current character is non-alphanumeric.
   - Pop the top element on the stack.
   - While the top element is non-alphanumeric, pop the stack and update the `top` variable.
   - Compare the lower-cased `top` element with the current lower-cased character
   - Return `False` immediately if there is a mismatch.
1. Finally, after scanning through `s`, return `True`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def isPalindrome(self, s: str) -> bool:
        stack = list(s)
        for c in s:
            if not str.isalnum(c): continue
            top = stack.pop()
            while not str.isalnum(top): top = stack.pop()
            if c.lower() != top.lower(): return False
        return True
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

  - Pushing all characters into a stack takes $O(n)$ time.
  - The `for` loop used to iterate over `s` also takes $O(n)$.
  - So overall time complexity is $O(2n) = O(n)$.

- Space complexity: $O(n)$

  The stack require the same size as `s`.

---

## Solution 2: Single-pass Check with Two Pointers

### Intuition

Use two index pointers, one starting from the left and incrementing, another starting from the right and decrementing, and compare their characters iteratively.

### Approach

1. Initialize index pointers `left` as 0 and `right` as `len(s)-1`.
1. Enter a `while` loop with condition `left < right`, and in each iteration:
   - While  `left < right` and the left element is non-alphanumeric, skip it by incrementing `left` by 1.
   - While  `left < right` and the right element is non-alphanumeric, skip it decrementing `right` by 1.
   - Compare the left lower-cased element with the right lower-cased element.
   - Return `False` immediately if there is a mismatch.
   - Increment `left` by 1 and decrement `right` by 1.
1. Finally, when the two pointers meet, return `True`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def isPalindrome(self, s: str) -> bool:
        left, right = 0, len(s) - 1
        while left < right:
            while left < right and not str.isalnum(s[left]): left += 1
            while left < right and not str.isalnum(s[right]): right -= 1
            if s[left].lower() != s[right].lower(): return False
            left += 1
            right -= 1
        return True
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

  A single pass `while` loop is used iterate over `s`.

- Space complexity: $O(1)$

  Constant space used (only 2 index pointers required).
