# [1. Two Sum](https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum/solutions/4017038/)

## Solution 1: Brute Force Search

### Intuition

Search for all possible pairs of numbers in the `nums` array and check if their sum equals to target.

### Approach

1. Enumerate over the `nums` array twice.
1. Ignore when their indices are the same (as a number can only be used at most once).
1. If their sum equals to target, return the indices pair.
1. Finally, if no number pairs with target sum is found, return an empty list.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def twoSum(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> List[int]:
        for i, x in enumerate(nums):
            for j, y in enumerate(nums):
                if i == j: continue
                if x + y == target: return [i, j]
        return []
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n^2)$

  A double nested `for` loop is used to iterate over `nums`.

- Space complexity: $O(1)$

  Constant space used (only 2 index pointers required).

---

## Solution 2: Difference Search with Hash Table

### Intuition

For each number `x` in the array, we find the difference (or complement) `target - x` and store the indices in a hash table. If the difference is already seen, then we can return the result immediately.

### Approach

1. Initialize a hash table as a dictionary.
1. Enumerate over `nums`.
1. Find the difference/complement using `target - x`.
1. If the difference is in the hash table, return indices pair `[difference's index, current index]` immediately.
1. Else, store the difference in the hash table with difference as key, and current index as value.
1. Finally, if no number pairs with target sum is found, return an empty list.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def twoSum(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> List[int]:
        seen = {}  # use a hash table to store the indices
        for i, x in enumerate(nums):
            diff = target - x
            if diff in seen:
                return [seen[diff], i]
            seen[x] = i
        return []
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

  A single pass `for` loop is used iterate over `nums`.

- Space complexity: $O(n)$

  In the worst case, all the numbers' complement are stored in the hash table; a tradeoff of space with time.

---

## Solution 3: Sort and Search with Two Pointers

### Intuition

If `nums` is sorted, then we can use the two pointers technique to solve the problem. With `left` pointer starting from the beginning and `right` pointer starting from the end, check the sum of their elements and adjust the pointers accordingly by comparing with `target`.

Return the old indexes immediately if the sum is equals to target. If the sum is smaller than target, it means we need a bigger number and so we increment `left` by `1` since the next number can only go bigger. Otherwise, sum is larger than target, it means we need a smaller number and so we decrement `right` by `1` since the next number can only go smaller. Repeat this process until `left` and `right` meets.

### Approach

1. Sort `nums` and retain original indexes.
1. Initialize `left` as `0` and `right` as `len(nums) - 1`.
1. Find the difference/complement using `target - x`.
1. Enter a `while` loop where `left < right`, and in each iteration:
   - Find the two sum by adding the elements of `left` and `right`.
   - Return their indexes if the two sum equals to `target`.
   - If the two sum is smaller than target, increment `left` by `1`.
   - Else decrement `right` by `1`.
1. Finally, if no number pairs with target sum is found, return an empty list.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def twoSum(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> List[int]:
        nums = sorted(enumerate(nums), key=lambda x: x[1])
        left, right = 0, len(nums) - 1
        while left < right:
            two_sum = nums[left][1] + nums[right][1]
            if two_sum == target:
                return [nums[left][0] , nums[right][0]]
            if two_sum < target:
                left += 1
            else:
                right -= 1
        return []
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n \log n)$

  - A single pass `enumerate` used to iterate over `nums` takes $O(n)$ time.
  - Sorting `nums` takes $O(n \log n)$ time.
  - If the two pointers meets, then another full pass over `nums` takes $O(n)$ time.
  - So total time complexity is $O(2n + n \log n) = O(n \log n)$

- Space complexity: $O(n)$

  A temporary space of size $n$ is need to store the sorted `nums` with their original indexes.
