# Solution 1: Brute Force Search

## Intuition

Search for all possible pairs of numbers in the `nums` array and check if their sum equals to target.

## Approach

1. Enumerate over `nums` twice with a double nested for loop.
1. Ignore when their indices are the same (as a number can only be used at most once).
1. If their sum equals to target, return the indices pair.
1. Finally, if no number pairs with target sum is found, return an empty list.

## Code

```python
class Solution:
    def twoSum(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> List[int]:
        for i, x in enumerate(nums):
            for j, y in enumerate(nums):
                if i == j: continue
                if x + y == target: return [i, j]
        return []
```

## Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n^2)$

A double nested for loop is used to iterate over `nums`.

- Space complexity: $O(1)$

Constant space used (only 2 index pointers required).

---

# Solution 2: Difference Search with Hash Table

## Intuition

For each number `x` in the array, we find the difference (or complement) `target - x` and store the indices in a hash table. If the difference is already seen, then we can return the result immediately.

## Approach

1. Initialize a hash table (using a dictionary).
1. Enumerate over `nums` once with a for loop.
1. Find the difference/complement using `target - x`.
1. If the difference is in the hash table, return indices pair `[difference's index, current index]` immediately.
1. Else, store the difference in the hash table with difference as key, and current index as value.

## Code

```python
class Solution:
    def twoSum(self, nums: List[int], target: int) -> List[int]:
        seen = {}  # use a hash table to store the indices
        for i, x in enumerate(nums):
            diff = target - x
            if diff in seen:
                return [seen[diff], i]
            seen[x] = i
        return []
```

## Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

A single pass for loop is used iterate over `nums`.

- Space complexity: $O(n)$

In the worst case, all the numbers' complement are stored in the hash table; a tradeoff of space with time.
