# [121. Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock](https://leetcode.com/problems/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock/solutions/4034420/best-time-to-buy-and-sell-stock-python-easy-explanations/)

## Solution 1: Brute Force Search

### Intuition

For every sell position, check all previous possible buy positions and update maximum profit.

### Approach

1. Initialize `max_profit` as 0.
1. Iterate over `prices`  starting from index 1 (the first sell position).
1. In each iteration (sell position), check for all possible buy positions before the current index and if a higher profit is seen, update `max_profit`.
1. Finally, return `max_profit`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def maxProfit(self, prices: List[int]) -> int:
        max_profit = 0
        for sell in range(1, len(prices)):
            for buy in range(sell):
                max_profit = max(max_profit, prices[sell] - prices[buy])
        return max_profit
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n^2)$

The total number of searches takes $O(1 + 2 + 3 + ... + n-1) = O(\frac{n(n-1)}{2}) = O(n^2)$ time.

- Space complexity: $O(1)$

Constant space used (only 1 variable required).

---

## Solution 2: Dynamic Programming (Kadane's Algorithm)

### Intuition

Transpose the problem into a [Maximum Subarray](https://leetcode.com/problems/maximum-subarray/) problem by considering the day-to-day price differences. Then, use dynamic programming (Kadane's Algorithm) to find the maximum subarray and return the maximum sum.

Let `dp[i]` be the largest sum seen so far that must include the element at position `i` starting from the left, then:

$$
\text{dp}[i] = \text{diff}[i] + \max
\begin{cases}
    \text{dp}[i-1], \\
    0
\end{cases}
$$

and initialize `dp[0]` as `diff[0]` as it is the only choice.

The intuition for each case as as follows:

1. `diff[i] + dp[i-1]` (when `dp[i-1]` is positive): we continue to add on the current element to the previous subarray's largest running sum.
1. `diff[i]` (when `dp[i-1]` is negative): we ignore all the elements on the left-side (before `i`) and only consider the current element.
    > **_NOTE:_** in a way, we reset the start of the subarray for subsequent searches to start from position `i`. This can also be viewed as a greedy approach.

We can optimize space as we do not need to keep track of the entire dynamic programming table values. We can just maintain a variable to store the previous step local maximum's value `dp[i-1]`.

### Approach

1. Initialize `local_max` as 0 and `global_max` as negative infinity.
1. Iterate over `prices` starting from index 1.
1. In each iteration:
    - Get the difference of the current price and the previous day's price (`diff = prices[i] - prices[i-1]`).
    - Update `local_max` by taking sum of `diff` with the maximum of `local_max` and 0.
    - Update `global_max` if a higher `local_max` is seen.
1. Finally, return `global_max` if it is positive, else 0.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def maxProfit(self, prices: List[int]) -> int:
        local_max, global_max = 0, float("-inf")
        for i in range(1, len(prices)):
            diff = prices[i] - prices[i-1]
            local_max = diff + max(local_max, 0)
            global_max = max(global_max, local_max)
        return max(global_max, 0)
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

A single pass `for` loop is used iterate over `prices`.

- Space complexity: $O(1)$

Constant space used (only 2 variables required).
