# [169. Majority Element](https://leetcode.com/problems/majority-element/solutions/4185735/majority-element-python-easy-explanations/)

## Solution 1: Sorting

### Intuition

Sort the array and return the element in the middle position. After sorting, the majority element be in a contiguous sequence that will take up more than half the size of the array ($>\lfloor \frac{n}{2} \rfloor$). Therefore, the element in the middle will always be the majority element.

### Approach

1. Sort `nums` in-placed.
1. Calculate middle index and return `nums[mid]`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def majorityElement(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        nums.sort()
        return nums[len(nums) // 2]
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n \log n)$

  Standard sorting takes $O(n \log n)$

- Space complexity: $O(1)$

  Sorting is performed in-placed.

---

## Solution 2: Counting with Hash Table

### Intuition

Get the counts of each unique element in `nums` using a hash table. Then, iterate the items in the hash table and return the element if the count exceeds the majority count.

### Approach

1. Initialize a hash table as a counter to iterate through `nums` and increment each element in `nums` by 1.
1. Calculate the majority count threshold `len(n) // 2`.
1. Iterate through each item in the hash table and return the element immediately if it exceeds the majority count threshold.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def majorityElement(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        counter = collections.Counter(nums)
        majority_count = len(nums) // 2
        for x, count in counter.items():
            if count > majority_count: return x
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

  - Counting each element in `nums` takes $O(n)$ time.
  - Iterating over the hash table also takes $O(n)$ time.
  - So total time complexity is $O(2n) = O(n)$.

- Space complexity: $O(n)$

  The hash table requires to store $n$ in `nums` if all the elements are unique.

---

## Solution 3: Boyer-Moore Majority Vote Algorithm

### Intuition

Apply the Boyer-Moore majority vote algorithm to find the majority element, which will have the most leading votes. With two variables `votes` initialize to 0 `candidate` as null, we increment `votes` by `1` if an `candidate` is seen, and decrement `votes` by `1` if another element is seen. If `votes` reaches `0`, it means there is a tie and we reset the search for the majority element by selecting the current element as the `candidate`.

Usually, the algorithm includes a second step with a second pass to check if the candidate's count is indeed above majority count, but since the question assumes that majority element always exists, then the candidate must be the majority element.

### Approach

1. Initialize a `candidate` as null and `votes` as `0`.
1. Iterate through `nums`, and update `candidate` to the current element if `votes` is `0`.
1. Increment `votes` by `1` if the current element equals to `candidate`.
1. Otherwise, decrement `votes` by 1.
1. Finally, return `candidate`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def majorityElement(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        candidate, votes = None, 0
        for x in nums:
            if votes == 0: candidate = x
            if x == candidate:
                votes += 1
            else:
                votes -= 1
        return candidate
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

  A single pass `for` loop is used to iterate over `nums`.

- Space complexity: $O(1)$

  Constant space used (only 2 variables required).
