# [242. Valid Anagram](https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-anagram/solutions/4074888/valid-anagram-python-easy-explanations/)

## Solution 1: Sort and Compare

### Intuition

Sort both strings alphabetically and check if they are the same.

### Approach

1. Return `False` immediately if the lengths of `s` and `t` are different.
   > **_NOTE:_** this helps to optimize amortized time complexity to $O(1)$.
1. Sort `s` and `t` alphabetically.
1. Return `True` if they sorted result is the same, else `False`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def isAnagram(self, s: str, t: str) -> bool:
        if len(s) != len(t): return False
        return sorted(s) == sorted(t)
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n \log n + m \log m)$

  - The sorting of `s` of size `n` and `t` of size `m` takes $O(n \log n + m \log m)$ time.
  - The string equality check takes $O(\max (n, m))$ time.
  - So overall time complexity is $O(n \log n + m \log m + \max (n, m)) = O(n \log n + m \log m)$.

- Space complexity: $O(n + m)$

  As strings are immutable, sorting them cannot be performed in-placed, so a temporary space of size equals to the lengths of the strings is required.

---

## Solution 2: Count with Hash Table

### Intuition

Use a hash table to increment the count for every character in `s` and decrement the count for every character in `t`. Then iterate through the hash table and return `False` immediately if the count is not 0.

### Approach

1. Return `False` immediately if the lengths of `s` and `t` are different.
    > **_NOTE:_** this helps to optimize amortized time complexity to $O(1)$.
1. Initialize a hash table for a counter.
1. Scan through `s` and increment count of each character by 1.
1. Scan through `t` and decrement count of each character by 1.
1. Iterate through the key value pairs of the hash table and return `False` immediately if the count is not 0.
1. Finally, after iterating through the hash table, return `True`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def isAnagram(self, s: str, t: str) -> bool:
        if len(s) != len(t): return False
        counter = collections.Counter()
        for c in s: counter[c] += 1
        for c in t: counter[c] -= 1
        for c, count in counter.items():
            if count != 0: return False
        return True

```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n + m)$

  - Each character in `s` of size `n` and `t` of size `m` is scanned once.
  - The iteration of the hash table takes $O(V)$ time, where $V$ is the vocabulary size of the character set, which is 26 since `s` and `t` consist of lowercase English letters.
  - So overall time complexity is $O(n + m + 26)= O(n + m)$.

- Space complexity: $O(1)$

  The size of the hash table depends on $V$, which in this case is 26, hence $O(26)= O(1)$.
  > **_NOTE_**: the follow-up question asks us to consider the case if the inputs contain Unicode characters. That would make the size of the character set $V$ a lot larger (up to  millions), but it is still a constant and does not change the worse-case space complexity. So this solution still works well.
