# [141. Linked List Cycle](https://leetcode.com/problems/linked-list-cycle/solutions/4103808/linked-list-cycle-python-easy-explanations/)

## Solution 1: Traverse with Hash Map

### Intuition

Traverse the entire linked list and use a hash map to store visited nodes. Return `True` if a node is found in the visited hash map. Return `False` if the end of the linked list (null) is reached.

### Approach

1. Initialize a hash map (using a set).
1. Enter a while loop to traverse the linked list till the end, and in each iteration:
    - Return `True` if the current node is in the hash map.
    - Add the current node into the hash map.
    - Advance the head pointer to the next node in the linked list.
1. Finally, when we reached the end of the linked list, return `False`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def hasCycle(self, head: Optional[ListNode]) -> bool:
        seen = set()
        while head is not None:
            if head in seen: return True
            seen.add(head)
            head = head.next
        return False
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

  Each node is accessed once if there is no cycle.

- Space complexity: $O(n)$

  The hash map requires a size equals to the number of nodes if there is no cycle.

---

## Solution 2: Traverse with Two Pointers (Floyd's Cycle Finding / Tortoise and Hare Algorithm)

### Intuition

Apply Floyd's Cycle Finding / Tortoise and Hare algorithm by using two pointers, `fast` and `slow`, to traverse the linked list but at different speeds. In each iteration, move `slow` by `1` step and move `fast` by `2` steps. If these pointers meet at the same node, then there is a cycle. Else if the end of the linked list is reached by `fast`, then there is no cycle.

### Approach

1. Initialize `slow` and `fast` as `head`.
1. Enter a while loop to traverse the linked list till the end while `fast` and `fast.next` is not null, and in each iteration:
    - Update `slow` pointer to the next node
    - Update `fast` pointer to the next's next node.
    - Return `True` if they point to the same node.
1. Finally, when we reached the end of the linked list, return `False`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def hasCycle(self, head: Optional[ListNode]) -> bool:
        slow = fast = head
        while fast and fast.next:
            slow = slow.next
            fast = fast.next.next
            if slow == fast: return True
        return False
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

  Each node (except for the first node) is accessed once by the `slow` pointer in the worst case if there is a cycle that starts from the last node.

- Space complexity: $O(1)$

  Constant space used (only 2 pointers required).
