# [383. Ransom Note](https://leetcode.com/problems/ransom-note/solutions/4178343/ransom-note-python-easy-explanations/)

## Solution 1: Brute Force Search

### Intuition

For each character in `ransomNote`, search in `magazine`. If found, remove the character from `magazine`, else return `False` immediately.

### Approach

1. Return `False` immediately if the length of `magazine` is less then the length of `ransomNote`
   > **_NOTE:_** this helps to optimize amortized time complexity to $O(1)$.
1. Iterate each character in `ransomNote`.
1. Initialize a boolean variable `found` as `False`.
1. In each iteration, enumerate over each character in `magazine`.
1. If there is a match, set `found` as `True` and exit the loop immediately.
1. If `found` is `True`, update `magazine` with the character of the current index removed, else return `False`.
1. Finally, return `True`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def canConstruct(self, ransomNote: str, magazine: str) -> bool:
        if len(magazine) < len(ransomNote): return False
        for a in ransomNote:
            found = False
            for i, b in enumerate(magazine):
                if a == b:
                    found = True
                    break
            if found:
                magazine = magazine[:i] + magazine[i + 1:]
            else:
                return False
        return True
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(m^2 + n^2)$

  - Denote $m$ be the length of `ransomNote` and $n$ be the length of `magazine`.
  - In the worst case, the total number of searches is $n + (n-1) + (n-2) + ... + (n-m-1) = \frac{(n-m-1)(2n-m-1)}{2} = O(m^2+n^2)$.
  - In each search, we have to re-construct `magazine`, which also takes a total time of $O(m^2+n^2)$ time based on the above similar analysis.
  - So total time complexity is $O(2(m^2+n^2))=O(m^2+n^2)$.

- Space complexity: $O(n)$

  As strings are immutable, a temporary space of size $n$ is required to re-construct `magazine`.

---

## Solution 2: Counting with Hash Table

### Intuition

Get a count for each character in `magazine` with a hash table. Then for each character `c` in `ransomNote`, return `False` immediately if the count of `c` in the hash table is `0`, else decrement it.

### Approach

1. Return `False` immediately if the length of `magazine` is less then the length of `ransomNote`
   > **_NOTE:_** this helps to optimize amortized time complexity to $O(1)$.
1. Initialize a hash table for a counter to scan through `magazine` and increment count of each character by 1.
1. Scan through `ransomNote`, and in each iteration:
   - Return `False` immediately if the count of a character in the hash table is `0`.
   - Else, decrement the count of each character by 1.
1. Finally, return `True`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def canConstruct(self, ransomNote: str, magazine: str) -> bool:
        if len(magazine) < len(ransomNote): return False
        seen = collections.Counter(magazine)
        for c in ransomNote:
            if seen[c] == 0: return False
            seen[c] -= 1
        return True
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(m + n)$

  - Counting each character in `magazine` of size $n$ takes $O(n)$ time.
  - A single pass `for` loop to iterate over `ransomNote` of size $m$ takes $O(m)$ time.
  - So overall time complexity is $O(m + n)$.

- Space complexity: $O(1)$

  The size of the hash table depends on $V$, where $V$ is the vocabulary size of the character set, which is 26 lowercase English letters. Hence $O(26)= O(1)$.
