# [21. Merge Two Sorted Lists](https://leetcode.com/problems/merge-two-sorted-lists/solutions/4022871/merge-two-sorted-lists-python-easy-explanations/)

## Solution 1: Recursion

### Intuition

Compare the head values of both linked lists and call the recursive function of the smaller sub-problem without the smaller head value.

### Approach

1. Define the base cases:
   - If `list1` is null (empty), then return `list2` as the head.
   - If `list2` is null (empty), then return `list1` as the head.
1. Compare the head values of both linked lists, and set the list with the smaller head value as the current head.
1. Call the recursion function with the smaller head value linked list skipped (after calling next) and the other linked list, and let the current head's next pointer point to the output.
1. Finally, return the current head.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def mergeTwoLists(self, list1: Optional[ListNode], list2: Optional[ListNode]) -> Optional[ListNode]:
        if list1 is None: return list2
        if list2 is None: return list1
        if list1.val < list2.val:
            head = list1
            head.next = self.mergeTwoLists(list1.next, list2)
        else:
            head = list2
            head.next = self.mergeTwoLists(list1, list2.next)
        return head
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n + m)$

  It is a single pass across all the nodes in `list1` of size $n$ and `list2` of size $m$.

- Space complexity: $O(n + m)$

  Recursive call stack is proportional to the input size of both linked lists.

---

## Solution 2: Iterative Merge with Dummy Nodes

### Intuition

Merge the linked list iteratively by using dummy head and tail nodes to keep track of the start and end of the linked list. Select the smaller value of the heads of both linked lists to add to the dummy tail. Terminate once either linked lists' end is reached, and attach the remaining head to the dummy tail.

### Approach

1. Initialize dummy head and tail as a `ListNode`.
1. Enter an infinite `while` loop and break after when either of the two terminating cases is reached:
   - If `list1` is null (empty), then set the dummy tail's next pointer to `list2`.
   - If `list2` is null (empty), then set the dummy tail's next pointer to `list1`.
1. In each iteration:
   - Compare the head values of both linked lists.
   - Set the dummy tail's next pointer to the smaller head node.
   - Skip the smaller head value linked list by calling next.
   - Update the dummy tail node to be the last node by setting it to its next.
1. Finally, return the dummy head's next.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def mergeTwoLists(self, list1: Optional[ListNode], list2: Optional[ListNode]) -> Optional[ListNode]:
        head = tail = ListNode()
        while True:
            if list1 is None:
                tail.next = list2
                break
            if list2 is None:
                tail.next = list1
                break
            if list1.val < list2.val:
                tail.next = list1
                list1 = list1.next
            else:
                tail.next = list2
                list2 = list2.next
            tail = tail.next
        return head.next
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n + m)$

  It is a single pass across all the nodes in `list1` of size $n$ and `list2` of size $m$.

- Space complexity: $O(1)$

  Constant space used (only 2 dummy list nodes required).
