# [110. Balanced Binary Tree](https://leetcode.com/problems/balanced-binary-tree/solutions/4100117/balanced-binary-tree-python-easy-explanations/)

## Solution 1: Postorder Traversal with Double Depth-First Search

### Intuition

Visit the nodes via postorder traversal (left, right, then root) with double-nested recursive depth-first search. For each node, we first get the depth of the left and right subtrees (using depth-first search) and return `False` immediately if their difference is more than `1`. Return `True` only if both the left and right subtrees are also balanced with another depth-first search.

### Approach

1. Define base case when a leaf node (null) is reached and return `True`.
1. Define a recursive depth-first search function `getHeight()` to get the maximum height of a tree.
1. In the recursive function:
   - Define base case when a leaf node (null) is reached and return `0`.
   - Call depth-first search recursively on the `root.left` and `root.right` subtree.
   - Return `1 + max(left, right)`.
1. Invoke the `getHeight()` depth-first search for `root.left` and `root.right`.
1. Return `False` immediately if their absolute difference is more than 1.
1. Call depth-first search recursively on the `root.left` subtree and `root.right` subtree and return `True` if they both are also balanced.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def isBalanced(self, root: Optional[TreeNode]) -> bool:
        if root is None: return True
        left = self.getHeight(root.left)
        right = self.getHeight(root.right)
        if abs(left-right) > 1: return False
        return self.isBalanced(root.left) and self.isBalanced(root.right)

    def getHeight(self, root: Optional[TreeNode]) -> int:
        if root is None: return 0
        left = self.getHeight(root.left)
        right = self.getHeight(root.right)
        return 1 + max(left, right)
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n^2)$

  The total number of searches takes $O(n + n-1 + n-2 + ... + 1) = O(\frac{n(n+1)}{2}) = O(n^2))$ in the worst case when the tree is degenerate (every parent node only has one child node).

- Space complexity: $O(n^2)$

  Similarly, the recursive call stack also requires $O(\frac{n(n+1)}{2}) = O(n^2)$ in the worst case when the tree is degenerate.

---

## Solution 2: Postorder Traversal with Single Depth-First Search

### Intuition

Use a single depth-first search by passing the imbalanced check into the `getHeight()` function such that it can be checked bottom-up. This can be done by overwriting the height return value with a special value such as `-1` if a subtree is already unbalanced at the lower levels.

### Approach

1. Define a recursive depth-first search function to get the maximum height of a tree.
1. In the recursive function:
   - Define base case when a leaf node (null) is reached and return `0`.
   - Call depth-first search recursively on the `root.left` and `root.right` subtree.
   - Return `-1` if their absolute difference is more than 1 or either `left` or `right` is equals to `-1`.
   - Else, return `1 + max(left, right)`.
1. Invoke the depth-first search for `root` and return `True` if it is not equals to `-1` and `False` otherwise.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def isBalanced(self, root: Optional[TreeNode]) -> bool:
        return self.getHeight(root) != -1

    def getHeight(self, root: Optional[TreeNode]) -> int:
        if root is None: return 0
        left = self.getHeight(root.left)
        right = self.getHeight(root.right)
        if abs(left-right) > 1 or left == -1 or right == -1: return -1
        return 1 + max(left, right)
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

  Each node is accessed once.

- Space complexity: $O(n)$

  Recursive call stack requires a size equals to the maximum height of the tree, which is in the worst-case the total number of nodes when the tree is degenerate (every parent node only has one child node).
