# [206. Reverse Linked List]()

## Solution 1: Reverse Recursively

### Intuition

Recursively call `reverseList` on the next node, until the last node is reached. Before retuning this last node, we need to reverse its `next` pointers by setting the current node's next next to itself, and reset the current next pointer to null.

### Approach

1. Define base case where the last node in the linked list is reached, or if the linked list is empty (null), return `head` immediately.
1. Call recursion on `head.next` and save result as `last`.
1. Update the next pointer of the next's node to point to `head`.
1. Reset the `head` next pointer to null.
1. Finally, return `last`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def reverseList(self, head: Optional[ListNode]) -> Optional[ListNode]:
        if head is None or head.next is None: return head
        last = self.reverseList(head.next)
        head.next.next = head  # reverse the next's node next to itself
        head.next = None       # reset the head node next to null
        return last
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

  Every node in the linked list of size $n$ is accessed once.

- Space complexity: $O(n)$

  Recursive call stack requires a size of entire length of the linked list.

---

## Solution 2: Reverse Iteratively

### Intuition

Reverse iteratively from the front by using two variables `prev` and `next`, both initialized as null, to keep track of the last and next node. In each iteration, save `next` as `head.next`, update `head.next` to `prev`, save `prev` as `head`, and update `head` to `next`.

### Approach

1. Initialize `prev` and `next` as null.
1. Enter a while loop with condition that `head` is not null.
1. In each iteration:
   - Set `next` as `head.next`.
   - Update `head.next` to point to `prev`.
   - Set `prev` as `head`.
   - Update `head` to `next`.
1. Finally, return `prev`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def reverseList(self, head: Optional[ListNode]) -> Optional[ListNode]:
        prev = next = None
        while head is not None:
            next = head.next
            head.next = prev
            prev = head
            head = next
        return prev
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

  Every node in the linked list of size $n$ is accessed once.

- Space complexity: $O(1)$

  Constant space used (only 2 pointers required).
