# [20. Valid Parenthesis](https://leetcode.com/problems/valid-parentheses/solutions/4029475/)

## Solution 1: Brute Force Check

### Intuition

Continuously search for all closed bracket pairs and remove them from `s`, and stop when there are no closed bracket pairs left. Check if the remaining string is empty, then it is valid.

### Approach

1. Initialize `count` as the current length of `s`.
1. Enter an infinite `while` loop.
1. In each iteration, we remove all closed bracket pairs ("()", "[]", "{}") using `str.replace` with an empty string.
1. If the string remains unchanged (`count == len(s)`) after all the string replacements, we terminate the infinite loop and return `True` if remaining string is empty, else `False`.
1. Else, we update `count` to be the current length of `s`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def isValid(self, s: str) -> bool:
        count = len(s)
        while True:
            s = s.replace("()", "")
            s = s.replace("[]", "")
            s = s.replace("{}", "")
            if count == len(s):  # unchanged
                return len(s) == 0
            count = len(s)
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n^2)$

  - Each `str.replace` takes $O(n)$ time.
  - There are at most $\frac{n}{2}$ number of bracket pairs.
  - There are 3 types of closed bracket pairs.
  - So the overall time complexity is $O(3n(\frac{n}{2})) = O(n^2)$.

- Space complexity: $O(n)$

  As strings are immutable, `str.replace` cannot be performed in-placed, so a temporary space proportional to the length of `s` is required to hold the new string.

---

## Solution 2: Single-pass Check with Stack

### Intuition

Scan the string sequentially and use a stack to hold the most recent opening bracket seen. Evaluate immediately when an invalid closing bracket is seen by comparing it with opening bracket at the top of the stack.

### Approach

1. Initialize a stack (using a list).
1. Iterate over `s`.
1. If we see an opening bracket, push it to the top of the stack.
1. Else, it is a closing bracket, and we retrieve the last seen opening bracket by popping the stack (return `False` if the stack is empty).
1. Return `False` if the closing bracket does not match with the last seen opening bracket.
1. Finally, after scanning through `s`, return `True` if the stack is empty, else `False`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def isValid(self, s: str) -> bool:
        stack = []
        for c in s:
            if c in "({[":  # open bracket
                stack.append(c)
            else:  # close bracket
                if len(stack) == 0: return False
                top = stack.pop()
                if c == ")" and top != "(": return False
                if c == "]" and top != "[": return False
                if c == "}" and top != "{": return False
        return len(stack) == 0
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

  A single pass `for` loop is used iterate over `s`.

- Space complexity: $O(n)$

  In the worst case where `s` contains all opening brackets, we require the stack to hold the entire input.
