# [226. Invert Binary Tree](https://leetcode.com/problems/invert-binary-tree/solutions/4070774/invert-binary-tree-python-easy-explanations/)

## Solution 1: Postorder Traversal with Depth-First Search

### Intuition

Visit the nodes via postorder traversal (left, right, then root) with recursive depth-first search. Swap the left and right subtrees when we reach back the root node.

### Approach

1. Define base case when a leaf node (null) is reached and return `None`.
1. Call depth-first search recursively on the `root.left` subtree.
1. Call depth-first search recursively on the `root.right` subtree.
1. Swap the `root.left` and `root.right` subtrees.
1. Finally, return `root`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def invertTree(self, root: Optional[TreeNode]) -> Optional[TreeNode]:
        if root is None: return None
        self.invertTree(root.left)
        self.invertTree(root.right)
        root.left, root.right = root.right, root.left
        return root
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

  Every node is accessed once.

- Space complexity: $O(n)$

  Recursive call stack requires a size equals to the maximum height of the tree, which is in the worst-case the total number of nodes when the tree is degenerate (every parent node only has one child node).

---

## Solution 2: Level Order Traversal with Breadth-First Search

### Intuition

Visit the nodes via level order traversal (root, left, then right) with breadth-first search. Use a queue to store the nodes to be processed in a First-In-First-Out (FIFO) order, initialized to contain the root node. While queue is non-empty, repeatedly pop the next node, swap its left and right subtrees, and push all child nodes into the queue.

### Approach

1. Return `None` if `root` is null (guard clause).
1. Initialize a queue with `root` in it.
1. Enter a while loop to apply breadth-first search while the queue is non-empty, and in each iteration:
   - Pop the queue to get the node to be processed.
   - Swap the left and right subtrees.
   - Push the left and right nodes into the queue if they are not null.
1. Finally, return `root`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def invertTree(self, root: Optional[TreeNode]) -> Optional[TreeNode]:
        if root is None: return None
        queue = collections.deque([root])
        while len(queue) > 0:
            node = queue.popleft()
            node.left, node.right = node.right, node.left
            if node.left: queue.append(node.left)
            if node.right: queue.append(node.right)
        return root
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

  Every tree node is accessed once.

- Space complexity: $O(n)$

  The queue requires a size equals to the maximum width of the tree (at the bottom-most level), which is in the worse-case $O(2^{\log n}) = O(n)$ when the tree is balanced.
