# [409. Longest Palindrome](https://leetcode.com/problems/longest-palindrome/solutions/4181529/longest-palindrome-python-easy-explanations/)

## Solution 1: Counting with Hash Table

### Intuition

Get a count for each character in `s` with a hash table. Initialize a variable `result` initialize as `0` to to denote the length  of the palindrome, and a flag variable `odd_exists` initialize as `False` to represent if we should add a character in the middle of the palindrome.

For each character count in the hash table, check if it is even or odd. For an ven count, increment `result` by the count value. For an odd count, increment `result` by the count value minus `1`, and set `odd_exists` to `True`, since the `1` character can be used as the middle element of the palindrome.

Finally, if the flag is `True`, return `result + 1` else return `result`.

### Approach

1. Initialize a hash table for a counter to scan through `s` and increment count of each character by 1.
1. Initialize `result` as `0` and `odd_exists` as `False`.
1. Scan through the hash table counts, and in each iteration:
   - If `count` is even, increment `result` by `count`.
   - Else `count` is odd, increment `result` by `count - 1`, and set `odd_exists` to `True`.
1. Finally, return `result + 1` if `odd_exists` is `True`, else `result`.

### Code

```python
class Solution:
    def longestPalindrome(self, s: str) -> int:
        counter = collections.Counter(s)
        odd_exists = False
        result = 0
        for _, count in counter.items():
            if count % 2 == 0:  # even
                result += count
            else:  # odd
                odd_exists = True
                result += count - 1
        return result + 1 if odd_exists else result
```

### Complexity

- Time complexity: $O(n)$

  - Counting each character in `s` of size $n$ takes $O(n)$ time.
  - A single pass `for` loop to iterate over each unique character in the hash table takes $O(V)$ time, where $V$ is the vocabulary size of the character set, which is 26 lowercase and 26 uppercase English letters. Hence $O(26 + 26)= O(1)$.
  - So overall time complexity is $O(n)$.

- Space complexity: $O(1)$

  The size of the hash table depends on $V$, hence it requires $O(26 + 26)= O(1)$ space.
